When you use S3, you're separating the data storage from your cluster.
One of the downsides is that you have to download your data across the network which,
as we learned in lesson one,
can be a bottleneck.
Another solution is to store the data on your Spark cluster with
the Hadoop Distributed File System or HDFS.
HDFS comes pre-installed on Spark with very little setup needed.
Spark in HDFS are designed to work well together.
When Spark needs some data from HDFS,
it grabs the closest copy which
minimizes the time data spends traveling around the network.
But there's a trade off to HDFS.
You have to maintain and fix the system yourself.
For many companies, from small startups to big corporations,
S3 is just easier,
since you don't have to maintain a separate cluster.
Also, if you rent clusters from AWS,
your data usually doesn't have to go too far in the network since
the cluster hardware and the S3 hardware are both on Amazon's data centers.
Finally, Spark is smart enough to download a small chunk of
data and process that chunk while waiting for the rest to download.
In order to decide which storage you prefer,
S3 or HDFS, will try the exact same job on both.